[lua]: initial support (#4433)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/lua.md

---
title: Lua
category: lang
iconSlug: lua
permalink: /lua

> versionCommand: |-
>   lua -v

Reviewer: ```suggestion
versionCommand: lua -v
```

Formatting.

> releaseImage:
>   https://www.lua.org/images/timeline.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
releaseImage: https://www.lua.org/images/timeline.png
```

Formatting.

releasePolicyLink: https://www.lua.org/versions.html

> changelogTemplate: |
>   https://www.lua.org/versions.html#{{"__RELEASE_CYCLE__"| split: " " | first}}/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changelogTemplate: https://www.lua.org/versions.html#{{"__RELEASE_CYCLE__"| split: " " | first}}/
```

Formatting.

Author: broke CI:

```
:24:34 PM: Submodule path "_data/release-data": checked out "62e1c4c0a969b8d6caba1b4d91a1d22f642a3483"
5:24:34 PM: Traceback (most recent call last):
5:24:34 PM:   File "_data/release-data/latest.py", line 24, in <module>
5:24:34 PM:     class ReleaseCycle:
5:24:34 PM:   File "_data/release-data/latest.py", line 38, in ReleaseCycle
5:24:34 PM:     def latest(self) -> str | None:
5:24:34 PM: TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for |: "type" and "NoneType"
5:24:34 PM: Replacing Deploy URL with Preview URL (https://deploy-preview-4433--endoflife-date.netlify.app/)
5:24:34 PM: Building site...
5:24:35 PM: Configuration file: /opt/build/repo/_config.yml
5:24:36 PM: Failed during stage "building site": Build script returned non-zero exit code: 2
5:24:36 PM: bundler: failed to load command: jekyll (/opt/build/cache/bundle/ruby/3.1.0/bin/jekyll)
5:24:36 PM: /opt/buildhome/.rvm/rubies/ruby-3.1.4/lib/ruby/3.1.0/psych.rb:455:in `parse": (products/lua.md): mapping values are not allowed in this context at line 9 column 82 (Psych::SyntaxError)
	from /opt/buildhome/.rvm/rubies/ruby-3.1.4/lib/ruby/3.1.0/psych.rb:455:in `parse_stream"
	from /opt/buildhome/.rvm/rubies/ruby-3.1.4/lib/ruby/3.1.0/psych.rb:399:in `parse"
```

https://app.netlify.com/sites/endoflife-date/deploys/65a3ee8229b8990008c09129

so reverted

Reviewer: Fixed in 9942ca7c81c362fe4f962f14410b28d178c72f0e.

activeSupportColumn: true
releaseDateColumn: true
eolColumn: Support Status

releases:
-   releaseCycle: "5.4"
    releaseDate: 2020-06-29

>     support: true

Reviewer: What does "support" means for Lua ? Is there two phase of support (such as for https://endoflife.date/grafana for instance) ?

I see on https://deploy-preview-4433--endoflife-date.netlify.app/lua that when a Lua release is EOL it is also not supported, so if there is only one support phase all `support` field must be removed and `activeSupportColumn` set to `false` (or also removed, as `false` is the default value for this property).

Author: AFAIK, there is no 'security support' for Lua releases.

Reviewer: Ok, so there is only a single support phase. Will drop the _Active support_ column and just keep the _Support Status_ column. I will also rename this column to just "Support".

Reviewer: Done in 1a7ebd888a1f22bcd5b17431f9f4e3ae0adcb644.

    eol: false
    latest: "5.4.6"
    latestReleaseDate: 2023-05-14

-   releaseCycle: "5.3"
    releaseDate: 2015-01-12
    support: false
    eol: 2020-09-25
    latest: "5.3.6"
    latestReleaseDate: 2020-09-25

-   releaseCycle: "5.2"
    releaseDate: 2011-12-16
    support: false
    eol: 2015-03-07
    latest: "5.2.4"
    latestReleaseDate: 2015-03-07

-   releaseCycle: "5.1"
    releaseDate: 2006-02-21
    support: false
    eol: 2012-02-17
    latest: "5.1.5"
    latestReleaseDate: 2012-02-17

-   releaseCycle: "5.0"
    releaseDate: 2003-04-11
    support: false
    eol: 2006-06-26
    latest: "5.0.3"
    latestReleaseDate: 2006-06-26

-   releaseCycle: "4.0"
    releaseDate: 2000-11-06
    support: false
    eol: 2000-02-22
    latest: "4.0.1"
    latestReleaseDate: 2000-02-22

-   releaseCycle: "3.2"
    releaseDate: 1999-07-08
    support: false

>     eol: 2000-02-22

Reviewer: Are EOL dates officially documented somewhere ? If no is there an "unofficial" rule ?

Author: If the release is EOL, then it contains wording like "There will be no further releases of Lua x.x" in https://www.lua.org/versions.html.

Reviewer: Ok, very interesting. Documented this in 52824a54b18d9d78ad95b78122fb5f0f8a35ff83.

    latest: "3.2.2"
    latestReleaseDate: 2000-02-22

---

> > [Lua](https://www.lua.org/) is a powerful, efficient, lightweight,
> > embeddable scripting language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Lua](https://www.lua.org/) is a lightweight, high-level, multi-paradigm and cross-platform programming language
> designed primarily for embedded use in applications.
```

Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lua_(programming_language).

Author: Initial definition was taken from a lua.org, should we use the definition provided by Wikipedia authors and not the authors of Lua?

Reviewer: Ok, that was just a suggestion. I just found the Wikipedia description a bit more descriptive, but let's keep this one.

The releases of Lua are numbered `x.y.z`, where `x.y` is the
version and `z` is the release.

> Different releases of the same version correspond to bug fixes.
> Different releases of the same version have the same reference
> manual, the same virtual machine, and are binary compatible
> (ABI compatible).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Releases of the same version correspond to bug fixes. They have the same reference manual, the same
virtual machine, and are binary compatible (ABI compatible).
```

WDYT ?

Author: Updated.

> Different versions are really different. The API is likely
> to be a little different (but with compatibility switches),
> and there is no ABI compatibility: applications that embed Lua
> and C libraries for Lua must be recompiled. The virtual machine
> is also very likely to be different in a new version: Lua
> programs that have been precompiled for one version will not
> load in a different version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Versions are really different. The API is likely to change (with compatibility switches),
and there is no ABI compatibility: applications that embed Lua and C libraries for Lua must be recompiled.
The virtual machine is also likely to be different in a new version, so Lua programs that have been
precompiled for one version will not load in a different version.
```

WDYT ?

Author: Updated.
